1. How do you find related data held in two separate data tables?

A: JOIN


2. Explain, in your own words, the difference between an INNER JOIN, LEFT OUTER JOIN, and RIGHT OUTER JOIN. Give a real-world example for each.


3. Define primary key and foreign key. Give a real-world example for each.

A:
Primary key is a unique ID for each row in a database.

Foreign key is the primary key of one table that's the non-primary key in another, when & by which they are joined.

In fb, the primary key might be the email address I used to set up the account. There might also be a table of my contact info with my name as primary key, which includies my email address. If these fb userID and contact_info tables were combined/joined, the email could be the foreign key in the contact info list.


4. Define aliasing.

A: creating short variable names (in SQL) to stand in for the actual table name(s) in a query


5. Change this query so that you are using aliasing:
*SELECT professor.name, compensation.salary,
compensation.vacation_days FROM professor JOIN
compensation ON professor.id =
compensation.professor_id;

A:

SELECT p.name, c.salary, c.vacation_days 
FROM professor AS p
JOIN compensation AS c ON p.id = c.p_id;


6. Why would you use a NATURAL JOIN? Give a real-world example.

A: for a JOIN, it keeps you from having to create a list of shared columns b/c any shared columns appear in the output table (just 1x).

In my above fb example, if phone number appeared in both userID and contact_info, the phone number column would appear 1x in the joined output.


7. Using this Employee schema and data, write queries to find the following information:
List all employees and all shifts.


8. Using this Adoption schema and data, please write queries to retrieve the following information and include the results:
*Create a list of all volunteers. If the volunteer is fostering a dog, include each dog as well.


*The cat's name, adopter's name, and adopted date for each cat adopted within the past month to be displayed as part of the "Happy Tail" social media promotion which posts recent successful adoptions.


*Create a list of adopters who have not yet chosen a dog to adopt.


*Lists of all cats and all dogs who have not been adopted.

*The name of the person who adopted Rosco.


9. Using this Library schema and data, write queries applying the following scenarios and include the results:
*To determine if the library should buy more copies of a given book, please provide the names and position, in order, of all of the patrons with a hold (request for a book with all copies checked out) on "Advanced Potion-Making".


*List all of the library patrons. If they have one or more books checked out, list the books with the patrons.